[docs] Add advanced tutorials for SEO and social sharing cards (#20964)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/tutorial/seo-and-social-sharing-cards-tutorial/index.md

---
title: Search Engine Optimization (SEO) and Social Sharing Cards with Gatsby
---

Perhaps you've even been approached by an SEO _expert_ who can maximize your revenue and page views just by following these **Three Simple Tricks**! However, relatively few make the concerted effort to implement SEO in their web app. This tutorial will share some of the ins and outs of SEO and how you can implement common, simple SEO patterns in your Gatsby web app, today. By the end of this post you'll know how to do the following:

- Implement SEO patterns with [react-helmet][react-helmet]
- Create an optimized social sharing card for Twitter, Facebook, and Slack
- Tweak the SEO component exposed in the default gatsby starter ([`gatsby-starter-default`][gatsby-starter-default])

## Implementation

> The core technology powering SEO is the humble, ubiquitiuous `meta` tag along with common tags like `title`. You've probably seen something like the below:

Author: Thank you for the pointer. I will have a look at the feedback and try to incorporate it.

## Gatsby + GraphQL

GraphQL is a crucial feature enabled via Gatsby (note: you don't [_have_ to use GraphQL with Gatsby][unstructured-data]). Leveraging GraphQL to query your indexable content--wherever it lives (at build time!)--is one of the most powerful and flexible techniques enabled via Gatsby. Let's briefly look at the implemention of an extensible and flexible SEO component.

### `StaticQuery`

Gatsby distinguishes between page-level queries and component queries. The former can use page GraphQL queries while the latter can use a new in Gatsby v2 feature called [`StaticQuery`][gatsby-static-query]. A StaticQuery will be parsed, evaluated, and injected at _build time_ into the component that is requesting the data, allowing to fall back to sane defaults, while also providing an extensible, reusable component.

### Creating the SEO component

Using the power and flexibility of React, you can create a React component to power this functionality.

> Note: `react-helmet` is enabled, by default, in gatsby-starter-default and gatsby-starter-blog
>
> If you're not using those starters [follow this guide for installation instructions][gatsby-plugin-react-helmet]

> ```jsx:title=src/components/seo.js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```js:title=src/components/seo.js
```

There are several of these that I'd like to make more consistent. I'll add suggestions to adjust them throughout.

import React from "react"
// highlight-start
import Helmet from "react-helmet"
import { StaticQuery, graphql } from "gatsby"
// highlight-end

function SEO() {
  return (
    <StaticQuery
      query={graphql`
        # highlight-start
        {
          site {
            siteMetadata {
              description
              keywords
              siteUrl
            }
          }
        }
        # highlight-end
      `}
      render={data => null}
    />
  )
}

export default SEO
```

This component doesn't _do_ anything yet, but it's the foundation for a useful, extensible component. It leverages the `StaticQuery` functionality enabled via Gatsby to query siteMetadata (e.g. details in `gatsby-config.js`) with description and keywords.

The `StaticQuery` component accepts a render prop, and at this point, it simply returns `null` to render nothing. Let's _actually_ render something and build out the prototype for this SEO component. Let's iterate further.

> ```jsx:title=src/components/seo.js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```js:title=src/components/seo.js
```

          }}
          meta={
            // highlight-start
            [
              {
                name: "description",
                content: data.site.siteMetadata.description,
              },
            ]
            // highlight-end
          }
        />
      )}
    />
  )
}

export default SEO
```

Whew, getting closer! This will now render the `meta` `description` tag, and will do so using content injected at build-time with the `StaticQuery` component. Additionally, it will add the `lang="en"` attribute to the root-level `html` tag to silence that pesky Lighthouse warning 😉.

This is still the bare bones, rudimentary approach to SEO. Let's enhance this functionality and get some useful functionality for sharing a page via social networks like Facebook, Twitter, and Slack.

### Implementing social SEO

In addition to SEO for actual _search_ engines you also want those pretty cards that social networks like Twitter and Slack enable. Specifically, the implementation should feature:

- Description for embedded results
- Title for embedded results
- (Optionally) display an image and a card if an image is passed in to the component

Let's implement it 👌

> ```jsx:title=src/components/seo.js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```js:title=src/components/seo.js
```

                          content: metaImage.width,
                        },
                        {
                          property: "og:image:height",
                          content: metaImage.height,
                        },
                        {
                          name: "twitter:card",
                          content: "summary_large_image",
                        },
                      ]
                    : [
                        {
                          name: "twitter:card",
                          content: "summary",
                        },
                      ]
                )
                .concat(meta)
              // highlight-end
            }
          />
        )
      }}
    />
  )
}

// highlight-start
SEO.defaultProps = {
  meta: [],
}
// highlight-end

// highlight-start
SEO.propTypes = {
  description: PropTypes.string,
  image: PropTypes.shape({
    src: PropTypes.string.isRequired(),
    height: PropTypes.string.isRequired(),
    width: PropTypes.string.isRequired(),
  }),
  meta: PropTypes.array,
  title: PropTypes.string.isRequired,
}
// highlight-end

export default SEO
```

> Woo hoo! You enabled not only SEO for search engines like Google, Bing (people use Bing, right?) but you also laid the groundwork for enhanced sharing capabilities on social networks. Finally, you will learn to add support for one of the more useful functionalities for SEO, specifically a canonical link.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Woo hoo! You enabled not only SEO for search engines like Google and Bing, but you also laid the groundwork for enhanced sharing capabilities on social networks. Finally, you will learn to add support for one of the more useful functionalities for SEO, specifically a canonical link.
```

I feel like the side comment makes more sense in a blog post but not so much a tutorial.

> Woo hoo! You enabled not only SEO for search engines like Google, Bing (people use Bing, right?) but you also laid the groundwork for enhanced sharing capabilities on social networks. Finally, you will learn to add support for one of the more useful functionalities for SEO, specifically a canonical link.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Woo hoo! You enabled not only SEO for search engines like Google, Bing (people use Bing, right?) but you also laid the groundwork for enhanced sharing capabilities on social networks. Finally, you will learn to add support for one of the more useful functionalities for SEO: a canonical link.
```

## `link rel="canonical"`

A canonical link is a hint to a search engine that this is the _source_ for this content. It helps resolve duplicate content issues. For instance, if you have several paths to the same content, you can use a canonical link as akin to a soft redirect which will **not** harm your search ranking if implemented correctly.

To implement this functionality, you need to do the following:

1. Enable passing a `pathname` prop to your SEO component
1. Prefix your `pathname` prop with your `siteUrl` (from `gatsby-config.js`)
   - A canonical link should be _absolute_ (e.g. https://your-site.com/canonical-link), so you will need to prefix with this `siteUrl`
1. Tie into the `link` prop of `react-helmet` to create a `<link rel="canonical" >` tag

> ```jsx

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```js:title=src/components/seo.js
```

                      },
                      {
                        property: "og:image:width",
                        content: metaImage.width,
                      },
                      {
                        property: "og:image:height",
                        content: metaImage.height,
                      },
                      {
                        name: "twitter:card",
                        content: "summary_large_image",
                      },
                    ]
                  : [
                      {
                        name: "twitter:card",
                        content: "summary",
                      },
                    ]
              )
              .concat(meta)}
          />
        )
      }}
    />
  )
}

SEO.defaultProps = {
  meta: [],
}

SEO.propTypes = {
  description: PropTypes.string,
  image: PropTypes.shape({
    src: PropTypes.string.isRequired(),
    height: PropTypes.string.isRequired(),
    width: PropTypes.string.isRequired(),
  }),
  meta: PropTypes.array,
  // highlight-next-line
  slug: PropTypes.string,
  title: PropTypes.string.isRequired,
}

export default SEO
```

> Woo hoo! Lot to digest here, but you've enabled adding an _absolute_ canonical link simply by passing in a `slug` prop and prefixing with `siteUrl`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Woo hoo! Lots to digest here, but you've enabled adding an _absolute_ canonical link by passing in a `slug` prop and prefixing with `siteUrl`.
```

> To bring it all home, it's high time to begin actually _using_ this extensible SEO component to show all of these moving parts coming together to deliver a great SEO experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To bring it all home, it's time to begin actually _using_ this extensible SEO component to show all of these moving parts coming together to deliver a great SEO experience.
```

## Using the SEO component

> You created an extensible SEO component. It takes a `title` prop, and then (optionally) `description`, `meta`, `image`, and `pathname` props. Let's wire it all up!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You created an extensible SEO component. It takes a `title` prop and then (optionally) `description`, `meta`, `image`, and `pathname` props. Let's wire it all up!
```

### In a page component

> ```jsx:title=src/pages/index.js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```js:title=src/pages/index.js
```

import React from "react"

import Layout from "../components/layout"
import SEO from "../components/seo" // highlight-line

function Index() {
  return (
    <Layout>
      <SEO title="My Amazing Gatsby App" /> {/* highlight-line */}
      <h1>lol - pretend this is meaningful content</h1>
    </Layout>
  )
}

export default Index
```

### In a template

Let's pretend you have a Markdown powered blog (see: [this tutorial][gatsby-markdown-blog] for more info). Of course, you want some nice SEO as well as a nifty image for sharing on Twitter, Facebook, and Slack. The following steps are needed:

- Create a Markdown post
- Add an image, and add it to the Markdown posts frontmatter
- Query this image with GraphQL

#### Creating the post

```shell
mkdir -p content/blog/2019-01-04-hello-world-seo
touch content/blog/2019-01-04-hello-world-seo/index.md
```

```md:title=content/blog/2019-01-04-hello-world-seo/index.md
---
date: 2019-01-04
featured: images/featured.jpg
---

Hello World!
```

#### Adding the image

Feel free to add whatever, or perhaps use this _very pertinent_ image:

> ![Sample Image](./images/seo.jpg)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Sample Image](./images/seo.jpg)
```

If you choose to maintain the sentence immediately preceding this image, I suggest making the alt text more specific. Anyone who can't see the image won't get the joke!

> the image will need to be located at `content/blog/2019-01-04-hello-world-seo/images/featured.jpg`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The image will need to be located at `content/blog/2019-01-04-hello-world-seo/images/featured.jpg`.
```

#### Querying with GraphQL

> ```jsx:title=src/templates/blog-post.js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```js:title=src/templates/blog-post.js
```

        image: featured {
          childImageSharp {
            resize(width: 1200) {
              src
              height
              width
            }
          }
        }
        title
      }
    }
  }
  # highlight-end
`

export default BlogPost
```

There are a few aspects worth nothing here:

1. You're using `pruneLength: 160` for the excerpt; this is because [SEO meta descriptions should be between 150-170 characters][seo-description-length]

- This is a slick feature of Gatsby's GraphQL capabilities, and will truncate (e.g. with a trailing `...`) appropriately. Perfect!

1. The image querying is intentionally simplified, but a good base to build upon. There are specific size and aspect ratio requirements for [both Facebook][facebook-og-image] and [Twitter][twitter-image].

## The Payoff

Using the techniques outlined in this post, you've made your Gatsby application SEO-friendly as well as sharable on common social networks. Check out the following examples of a sample blog post.

### Google

![Google](./images/google.png)

### Facebook

![Facebook](./images/facebook.png)

### Twitter

![Twitter](./images/twitter.png)

### Slack

![Slack](./images/slack.png)

> 

Reviewer: Please provide more specific alt text for these images. As is, it'll read as something like "Image: Google" and so on, which is not super descriptive.

To learn more about these validations, check out how to _validate_ SEO with the following tools from [Google][google-validation], [Twitter][twitter-validation], and [Facebook][facebook-validation].

> These SEO resources outlined in this tutorial aren't _only_ a best practice, they're also a best practice enabled, by default. Available **today** in `gatsby-starter-default`, simply use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SEO resources outlined in this tutorial aren't _only_ a best practice, they're also a best practice enabled by default. Available **today** in `gatsby-starter-default`, use:
```

```shell

> npx gatsby new my-new-gatsby-app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
npm gatsby new my-new-gatsby-app
```

This is mostly for consistency with other docs.

```

and you'll have the `SEO` component available to maximize your SEO and social sharing capabilities. Check it out!

## Further Learning

> This tutorial is merely a shallow dive into the depths of SEO optimization--consider it a primer for further learning and a gentle introduction to some SEO concepts with a Gatsby twist. To truly master these concepts is outside the scope of this tutorial, but it truly is fascinating stuff that can directly lead to more eyes on your content!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial is merely a shallow dive into the depths of SEO. Consider it a primer for further learning and a gentle introduction to some SEO concepts with a Gatsby twist. To truly master these concepts is outside the scope of this tutorial, but it truly is fascinating stuff that can directly lead to more eyes on your content!
```

"search engine optimization optimization" 😄
